CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES\1\

                              ----------


We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect
        Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide
        for the common defence, promote the general Welfare, and secure
        the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do
        ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of
        America.

                               Article I.

    Section 1. All legislative Powers herein granted shall be
vested in a Congress of the United States, which shall consist
of a Senate and House of Representatives.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   * * * * *
\1\This text of the Constitution follows the engrossed copy signed by
Gen. Washington and the deputies from 12 States. The small superior
figures preceding the paragraphs designate clauses, and were not in the
original and have no reference to footnotes.
                                   * * * * *
The Constitution was adopted by a convention of the States on September
17, 1787, and was subsequently ratified by the several States, on the
following dates: Delaware, December 7, 1787; Pennsylvania, December 12,
1787; New Jersey, December 18, 1787; Georgia, January 2, 1788;
Connecticut, January 9, 1788; Massachusetts, February 6, 1788;
Maryland, April 28, 1788; South Carolina, May 23, 1788; New Hampshire,
June 21, 1788.
                                   * * * * *
Ratification was completed on June 21, 1788.
                                   * * * * *
The Constitution was subsequently ratified by Virginia, June 25, 1788;
New York, July 26, 1788; North Carolina, November 21, 1789; Rhode
Island, May 29, 1790; and Vermont, January 10, 1791.
                                   * * * * *
In May 1785, a committee of Congress made a report recommending an
alteration in the Articles of Confederation, but no action was taken on
it, and it was left to the State Legislatures to proceed in the matter.
In January 1786, the Legislature of Virginia passed a resolution
providing for the appointment of five commissioners, who, or any three
of them, should meet such commissioners as might be appointed in the
other States of the Union, at a time and place to be agreed upon, to
take into consideration the trade of the United States; to consider how
far a uniform system in their commercial regulations may be necessary
to their common interest and their permanent harmony; and to report to
the several States such an act, relative to this great object, as, when
ratified by them, will enable the United States in Congress effectually
to provide for the same. The Virginia commissioners, after some
correspondence, fixed the first Monday in September as the time, and
the city of Annapolis as the place for the meeting, but only four other
States were represented, viz: Delaware, New York, New Jersey, and
Pennsylvania; the commissioners appointed by Massachusetts, New
Hampshire, North Carolina, and Rhode Island failed to attend. Under the
circumstances of so partial a representation, the commissioners present
agreed upon a report (drawn by Mr. Hamilton, of New York) expressing
their unanimous conviction that it might essentially tend to advance
the interests of the Union if the States by which they were
respectively delegated would concur, and use their endeavors to procure
the concurrence of the other States, in the appointment of
commissioners to meet at Philadelphia on the second Monday of May
following, to take into consideration the situation of the United
States; to devise such further provisions as should appear to them
necessary to render the Constitution of the Federal Government adequate
to the exigencies of the Union; and to report such an act for that
purpose to the United States in Congress assembled as, when agreed to
by them and afterwards confirmed by the Legislatures of every State,
would effectually provide for the same.
                                   * * * * *
Congress, on the 21st of February, 1787, adopted a resolution in favor
of a convention, and the Legislatures of those States which had not
already done so (with the exception of Rhode Island) promptly appointed
delegates. On the 25th of May, seven States having convened, George
Washington, of Virginia, was unanimously elected President, and the
consideration of the proposed constitution was commenced. On the 17th
of September, 1787, the Constitution as engrossed and agreed upon was
signed by all the members present, except Mr. Gerry of Massachusetts,
and Messrs. Mason and Randolph, of Virginia. The president of the
convention transmitted it to Congress, with a resolution stating how
the proposed Federal Government should be put in operation, and an
explanatory letter. Congress, on the 28th of September, 1787, directed
the Constitution so framed, with the resolutions and letter concerning
the same, to ``be transmitted to the several Legislatures in order to
be submitted to a convention of delegates chosen in each State by the
people thereof, in conformity to the resolves of the convention.''
                                   * * * * *
On the 4th of March, 1789, the day which had been fixed for commencing
the operations of Government under the new Constitution, it had been
ratified by the conventions chosen in each State to consider it, as
follows: Delaware, December 7, 1787; Pennsylvania, December 12, 1787;
New Jersey, December 18, 1787; Georgia, January 2, 1788; Connecticut,
January 9, 1788; Massachusetts, February 6, 1788; Maryland, April 28,
1788; South Carolina, May 23, 1788; New Hampshire, June 21, 1788;
Virginia, June 25, 1788; and New York, July 26, 1788.
                                   * * * * *
The President informed Congress, on the 28th of January, 1790, that
North Carolina had ratified the Constitution November 21, 1789; and he
informed Congress on the 1st of June, 1790, that Rhode Island had
ratified the Constitution May 29, 1790. Vermont, in convention,
ratified the Constitution January 10, 1791, and was, by an act of
Congress approved February 18, 1791, ``received and admitted into this
Union as a new and entire member of the United States.''
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Section 2. \1\The House of Representatives shall be
composed of Members chosen every second Year by the People of
the several States, and the Electors in each State shall have
the Qualifications requisite for Electors of the most numerous
Branch of the State Legislature.
    \2\No Person shall be a Representative who shall not have
attained to the Age of twenty five Years, and been seven Years
a Citizen of the United States, and who shall not, when
elected, be an Inhabitant of that State in which he shall be
chosen.
    \3\Representatives and direct Taxes shall be apportioned
among the several States which may be included within this
Union, according to their respective Numbers, which shall be
determined by adding to the whole Number of free Persons,
including those bound to Service for a Term of Years, and
excluding Indians not taxed, three fifths of all other
Persons.\2\ The actual Enumeration shall be made within three
Years after the first Meeting of the Congress of the United
States, and within every subsequent Term of ten Years, in such
Manner as they shall by Law direct. The Number of
Representatives shall not exceed one for every thirty Thousand,
but each State shall have at Least one Representative; and
until such enumeration shall be made, the State of New
Hampshire shall be entitled to chuse three, Massachusetts
eight, Rhode Island and Providence Plantations one, Connecticut
five, New York six, New Jersey four, Pennsylvania eight,
Delaware one, Maryland six, Virginia ten, North Carolina five,
South Carolina five, and Georgia three.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   * * * * *
\2\The part of this clause relating to the mode of apportionment of
representatives among the several States has been affected by section 2
of amendment XIV, and as to taxes on incomes without apportionment by
amendment XVI.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \4\When vacancies happen in the Representation from any
State, the Executive Authority thereof shall issue Writs of
Election to fill such Vacancies.
    \5\The House of Representatives shall chuse their Speaker
and other Officers; and shall have the sole Power of
Impeachment.
    Section 3. \1\The Senate of the United States shall be
composed of two Senators from each State, chosen by the
Legislature thereof\3\ for six Years; and each Senator shall
have one Vote.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   * * * * *
\3\This clause has been affected by clause 1 of amendment XVII.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \2\Immediately after they shall be assembled in Consequence
of the first Election, they shall be divided as equally as may
be into three Classes. The Seats of the Senators of the first
Class shall be vacated at the Expiration of the second Year, of
the second Class at the Expiration of the fourth Year, and of
the third Class at the Expiration of the sixth Year, so that
one third may be chosen every second Year; and if Vacancies
happen by Resignation or otherwise, during the Recess of the
Legislature of any State, the Executive thereof may make
temporary Appointments until the next Meeting of the
Legislature, which shall then fill such Vacancies.\4\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   * * * * *
\4\This clause has been affected by clause 2 of amendment XVIII.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \3\No Person shall be a Senator who shall not have attained
to the Age of thirty Years, and been nine Years a Citizen of
the United States, and who shall not, when elected, be an
Inhabitant of that State for which he shall be chosen.
    \4\The Vice President of the United States shall be
President of the Senate, but shall have no Vote, unless they be
equally divided.
    \5\The Senate shall chuse their other Officers, and also a
President pro tempore, in the Absence of the Vice President, or
when he shall exercise the Office of President of the United
States.
    \6\The Senate shall have the sole Power to try all
Impeachments. When sitting for that Purpose, they shall be on
Oath or Affirmation. When the President of the United States is
tried, the Chief Justice shall preside: And no Person shall be
convicted without the Concurrence of two thirds of the Members
present.
    \7\Judgment in Cases of Impeachment shall not extend
further than to removal from Office, and disqualification to
hold and enjoy any Office of honor, Trust or Profit under the
United States: but the Party convicted shall nevertheless be
liable and subject to Indictment, Trial, Judgment and
Punishment, according to Law.
    Section 4. \1\The Times, Places and Manner of holding
Elections for Senators and Representatives, shall be prescribed
in each State by the Legislature thereof; but the Congress may
at any time by Law make or alter such Regulations, except as to
the Places of chusing Senators.
    \2\The Congress shall assemble at least once in every Year
and such Meeting shall be on the first Monday in December,\5\
unless they shall by Law appoint a different Day.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   * * * * *
\5\This clause has been affected by amendment XX.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Section 5. \1\Each House shall be the Judge of the
Elections, Returns and Qualifications of its own Members, and a
Majority of each shall constitute a Quorum to do Business; but
a smaller Number may adjourn from day to day, and may be
authorized to compel the Attendance of absent Members, in such
Manner, and under such Penalties as each House may provide.
    \2\Each House may determine the Rules of its Proceedings,
punish its Members for disorderly Behavior, and, with the
Concurrence of two thirds, expel a Member.
    \3\Each House shall keep a Journal of its Proceedings, and
from time to time publish the same, excepting such Parts as may
in their Judgment require Secrecy; and the Yeas and Nays of the
Members of either House on any question shall, at the Desire of
one fifth of those Present, be entered on the Journal.
    \4\Neither House, during the Session of Congress, shall,
without the Consent of the other, adjourn for more than three
days, nor to any other Place than that in which the two Houses
shall be sitting.
    Section 6. \1\The Senators and Representatives shall
receive a Compensation for their Services, to be ascertained by
Law, and paid out of the Treasury of the United States.\6\ They
shall in all Cases, except Treason, Felony and Breach of the
Peace, be privileged from Arrest during their Attendance at the
Session of their respective Houses, and in going to and
returning from the same; and for any Speech or Debate in either
House, they shall not be questioned in any other Place.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   * * * * *
\6\This clause has been affected by amendment XXVII.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \2\No Senator or Representative shall, during the Time for
which he was elected, be appointed to any civil Office under
the Authority of the United States, which shall have been
created, or the Emoluments whereof shall have been encreased
during such time; and no Person holding any Office under the
United States, shall be a Member of either House during his
Continuance in Office.
    Section 7. \1\All Bills for raising Revenue shall originate
in the House of Representatives; but the Senate may propose or
concur with Amendments as on other Bills.
    \2\Every Bill which shall have passed the House of
Representatives and the Senate, shall, before it become a Law,
be presented to the President of the United States; If he
approve he shall sign it, but if not he shall return it, with
his Objections to that House in which it shall have originated,
who shall enter the Objections at large on their Journal, and
proceed to reconsider it. If after such Reconsideration two
thirds of that House shall agree to pass the Bill, it shall be
sent, together with the Objections, to the other House, by
which it shall likewise be reconsidered, and if approved by two
thirds of that House, it shall become a Law. But in all such
Cases the Votes of both Houses shall be determined by Yeas and
Nays, and the Names of the Persons voting for and against the
Bill shall be entered on the Journal of each House
respectively. If any Bill shall not be returned by the
President within ten Days (Sundays excepted) after it shall
have been presented to him, the Same shall be a Law, in like
Manner as if he had signed it, unless the Congress by their
Adjournment prevent its Return, in which Case it shall not be a
Law.
    \3\Every Order, Resolution, or Vote to which the
Concurrence of the Senate and House of Representatives may be
necessary (except on a question of Adjournment) shall be
presented to the President of the United States; and before the
Same shall take Effect, shall be approved by him, or being
disapproved by him, shall be repassed by two thirds of the
Senate and House of Representatives, according to the Rules and
Limitations prescribed in the Case of a Bill.
    Section 8. \1\The Congress shall have Power To lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay the Debts
and provide for the common Defence and general Welfare of the
United States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises shall be
uniform throughout the United States;
    \2\To borrow Money on the credit of the United States;
    \3\To regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the
several States, and with the Indian Tribes;
    \4\To establish a uniform Rule of Naturalization, and
uniform Laws on the subject of Bankruptcies throughout the
United States;
    \5\To coin Money, regulate the Value thereof, and of
foreign Coin, and fix the Standard of Weights and Measures;
    \6\To provide for the Punishment of counterfeiting the
Securities and current Coin of the United States;
    \7\To establish Post Offices and post Roads;
    \8\To promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by
securing for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the
exclusive Right to their respective Writings and Discoveries;
    \9\To constitute Tribunals inferior to the supreme Court;
    \10\To define and punish Piracies and Felonies committed on
the high Seas, and Offences against the Law of Nations;
    \11\To declare War, grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal,
and make Rules concerning Captures on Land and Water;
    \12\To raise and support Armies, but no Appropriation of
Money to that Use shall be for a longer Term than two Years;
    \13\To provide and maintain a Navy;
    \14\To make Rules for the Government and Regulation of the
land and naval Forces;
    \15\To provide for calling forth the Militia to execute the
Laws of the Union, suppress Insurrections and repel Invasions;
    \16\To provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining,
the Militia, and for governing such Part of them as may be
employed in the Service of the United States, reserving to the
States respectively, the Appointment of the Officers, and the
Authority of training the Militia according to the discipline
prescribed by Congress;
    \17\To exercise exclusive Legislation in all Cases
whatsoever, over such District (not exceeding ten Miles square)
as may, by Cession of particular States, and the Acceptance of
Congress, become the Seat of the Government of the United
States, and to exercise like Authority over all Places
purchased by the Consent of the Legislature of the State in
which the Same shall be, for the Erection of Forts, Magazines,
Arsenals, dock-Yards, and other needful buildings;--And
    \18\To make all Laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into Execution the foregoing Powers, and all other
Powers vested by this Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Officer thereof.
    Section 9. \1\The Migration or Importation of such Persons
as any of the States now existing shall think proper to admit,
shall not be prohibited by the Congress prior to the Year one
thousand eight hundred and eight, but a Tax or duty may be
imposed on such Importation, not exceeding ten dollars for each
Person.
    \2\The Privilege of the Writ of Habeas Corpus shall not be
suspended, unless when in Cases of Rebellion or Invasion the
public Safety may require it.
    \3\No Bill of Attainder or ex post facto Law shall be
passed.
    \4\No Capitation, or other direct, Tax shall be laid,
unless in Proportion to the Census or Enumeration herein before
directed to be taken.\7\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   * * * * *
\7\This clause has been affected by amendment XVI.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \5\No Tax or Duty shall be laid on Articles exported from
any State.
    \6\No Preference shall be given by any Regulation of
Commerce or Revenue to the Ports of one State over those of
another: nor shall Vessels bound to, or from, one State, be
obliged to enter, clear, or pay Duties in another.
    \7\No Money shall be drawn from the Treasury, but in
Consequence of Appropriations made by Law; and a regular
Statement and Account of the Receipts and Expenditures of all
public Money shall be published from time to time.
    \8\No Title of Nobility shall be granted by the United
States: And no Person holding any Office of Profit or Trust
under them, shall, without the Consent of the Congress, accept
of any present, Emolument, Office, or Title, of any kind
whatever, from any King, Prince, or foreign State.
    Section 10. \1\No State shall enter into any Treaty,
Alliance, or Confederation; grant Letters of Marque and
Reprisal; coin Money; emit Bills of Credit; make any Thing but
gold and silver Coin a Tender in Payment of Debts; pass any
Bill of Attainder, ex post facto Law, or Law impairing the
Obligation of Contracts, or grant any Title of Nobility.
    \2\No State shall, without the Consent of the Congress, lay
any Imposts or Duties on Imports or Exports, except what may be
absolutely necessary for executing its inspection Laws: and the
net Produce of all Duties and Imposts, laid by any State on
Imports or Exports, shall be for the Use of the Treasury of the
United States; and all such Laws shall be subject to the
Revision and Control of the Congress.
    \3\No State shall, without the Consent of Congress, lay any
Duty of Tonnage, keep Troops, or Ships of War in time of Peace,
enter into any Agreement or Compact with another State, or with
a foreign Power, or engage in War, unless actually invaded, or
in such imminent Danger as will not admit of delay.

                              Article II.

    Section 1. \1\The executive Power shall be vested in a
President of the United States of America. He shall hold his
Office during the Term of four Years, and, together with the
Vice President, chosen for the same Term, be elected, as
follows
    \2\Each State shall appoint, in such Manner as the
Legislature thereof may direct, a Number of Electors, equal to
the whole Number of Senators and Representatives to which the
State may be entitled in the Congress: but no Senator or
Representative, or Person holding an Office of Trust or Profit
under the United States, shall be appointed an Elector.
    \3\The Electors shall meet in their respective States, and
vote by Ballot for two Persons, of whom one at least shall not
be an Inhabitant of the same State with themselves. And they
shall make a List of all the Persons voted for, and of the
Number of Votes for each; which List they shall sign and
certify, and transmit sealed to the Seat of the Government of
the United States, directed to the President of the Senate. The
President of the Senate shall, in the Presence of the Senate
and House of Representatives, open all the Certificates, and
the Votes shall then be counted. The Person having the greatest
Number of Votes shall be the President, if such Number be a
Majority of the whole Number of Electors appointed; and if
there be more than one who have such Majority, and have an
equal Number of Votes, then the House of Representatives shall
immediately chuse by Ballot one of them for President; and if
no Person have a Majority, then from the five highest on the
List the said House shall in like Manner chuse the President.
But in chusing the President, the Votes shall be taken by
States, the Representation from each State having one Vote; A
quorum for this Purpose shall consist of a Member or Members
from two thirds of the States, and a Majority of all the States
shall be necessary to a Choice. In every Case, after the Choice
of the President, the Person having the greatest Number of
Votes of the Electors shall be the Vice President. But if there
should remain two or more who have equal Votes, the Senate
shall chuse from them by Ballot the Vice President.\8\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   * * * * *
\8\This clause has been superseded by amendment XII.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \4\The Congress may determine the Time of chusing the
Electors, and the Day on which they shall give their Votes;
which Day shall be the same throughout the United States.
    \5\No Person except a natural born Citizen, or a Citizen of
the United States, at the time of the Adoption of this
Constitution, shall be eligible to the Office of President;
neither shall any Person be eligible to that Office who shall
not have attained to the Age of thirty five Years, and been
fourteen Years a Resident within the United States.
    \6\In Case of the Removal of the President from Office, or
of his Death, Resignation, or Inability to discharge the Powers
and Duties of the said Office,\9\ the Same shall devolve on the
Vice President, and the Congress may by Law provide for the
Case of Removal, Death, Resignation or Inability, both of the
President and Vice President, declaring what Officer shall then
act as President, and such Officer shall act accordingly, until
the Disability be removed, or a President shall be elected.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   * * * * *
\9\This clause has been affected by amendment XXV.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \7\The President shall, at stated Times, receive for his
Services, a Compensation, which shall neither be encreased nor
diminished during the Period for which he shall have been
elected, and he shall not receive within that Period any other
Emolument from the United States, or any of them.
    \8\Before he enter on the Execution of his Office, he shall
take the following Oath or Affirmation:--``I do solemnly swear
(or affirm) that I will faithfully execute the Office of
President of the United States, and will to the best of my
Ability, preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the
United States.''
    Section 2. \1\The President shall be Commander in Chief of
the Army and Navy of the United States, and of the Militia of
the several States, when called into the actual Service of the
United States; he may require the Opinion, in writing, of the
principal Officer in each of the executive Departments, upon
any Subject relating to the Duties of their respective Offices,
and he shall have Power to grant Reprieves and Pardons for
Offences against the United States, except in Cases of
Impeachment.
    \2\He shall have Power, by and with the Advice and Consent
of the Senate, to make Treaties, provided two thirds of the
Senators present concur; and he shall nominate, and by and with
the Advice and Consent of the Senate, shall appoint
Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls, Judges of the
supreme Court, and all other Officers of the United States,
whose Appointments are not herein otherwise provided for, and
which shall be established by Law: but the Congress may by Law
vest the Appointment of such inferior Officers, as they think
proper, in the President alone, in the Courts of Law, or in the
Heads of Departments.
    \3\The President shall have Power to fill up all Vacancies
that may happen during the Recess of the Senate, by granting
Commissions which shall expire at the End of their next
Session.
    Section 3. He shall from time to time give to the Congress
Information of the State of the Union, and recommend to their
Consideration such Measures as he shall judge necessary and
expedient; he may, on extraordinary Occasions, convene both
Houses, or either of them, and in Case of Disagreement between
them, with Respect to the Time of Adjournment, he may adjourn
them to such Time as he shall think proper; he shall receive
Ambassadors and other public Ministers; he shall take Care that
the Laws be faithfully executed, and shall Commission all the
Officers of the United States.
    Section 4. The President, Vice President and all civil
Officers of the United States, shall be removed from Office on
Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other
high Crimes and Misdemeanors.

                              Article III.

    Section 1. The judicial Power of the United States, shall
be vested in one supreme Court, and in such inferior Courts as
the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish. The
Judges, both of the supreme and inferior Courts, shall hold
their Offices during good Behaviour, and shall, at stated
Times, receive for their Services, a Compensation, which shall
not be diminished during their Continuance in Office.
    Section 2. \1\The judicial Power shall extend to all Cases,
in Law and Equity, arising under this Constitution, the Laws of
the United States, and Treaties made, or which shall be made,
under their Authority;--to all Cases affecting Ambassadors,
other public Ministers and Consuls;--to all Cases of admiralty
and maritime Jurisdiction;--to Controversies to which the
United States will be a party;--to Controversies between two or
more States;--between a State and Citizens of another
State;\10\--between Citizens of different States,--between
Citizens of the same State claiming Lands under Grants of
different States, and between a State, or the Citizens thereof,
and foreign States, Citizens or Subjects.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   * * * * *
\10\This clause has been affected by amendment XI.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \2\In all Cases affecting Ambassadors, other public
Ministers and Consuls, and those in which a State shall be
Party, the supreme Court shall have original Jurisdiction. In
all the other Cases before mentioned, the supreme Court shall
have appellate Jurisdiction, both as to Law and Fact, with such
Exceptions, and under such Regulations as the Congress shall
make.
    \3\The Trial of all Crimes, except in Cases of Impeachment,
shall be by Jury; and such Trial shall be held in the State
where the said Crimes shall have been committed; but when not
committed within any State, the Trial shall be at such Place or
Places as the Congress may by Law have directed.
    Section 3. \1\Treason against the United States, shall
consist only in levying War against them, or in adhering to
their Enemies, giving them Aid and Comfort. No Person shall be
convicted of Treason unless on the Testimony of two Witnesses
to the same overt Act, or on Confession in open Court.
    \2\The Congress shall have Power to declare the Punishment
of Treason, but no Attainder of Treason shall work Corruption
of Blood, or Forfeiture except during the Life of the Person
attainted.

                              Article IV.

    Section 1. Full Faith and Credit shall be given in each
State to the public Acts, Records, and judicial Proceedings of
every other State. And the Congress may by general Laws
prescribe the Manner in which such Acts, Records and
Proceedings shall be proved, and the Effect thereof.
    Section 2. \1\The Citizens of each State shall be entitled
to all Privileges and Immunities of Citizens in the several
States.
    \2\A Person charged in any State with Treason, Felony, or
other Crime, who shall flee from Justice, and be found in
another State, shall on Demand of the executive Authority of
the State from which he fled, be delivered up, to be removed to
the State having Jurisdiction of the Crime.
    \3\No Person held to Service or Labour in one State, under
the Laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in Consequence
of any Law or Regulation therein, be discharged from such
Service or Labour, but shall be delivered up on Claim of the
Party to whom such Service or Labour may be due.\11\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   * * * * *
\11\This clause has been affected by amendment XIII.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Section 3. \1\New States may be admitted by the Congress
into this Union; but no new State shall be formed or erected
within the Jurisdiction of any other State; nor any State be
formed by the Junction of two or more States, or Parts of
States, without the Consent of the Legislatures of the States
concerned as well as of the Congress.
    \2\The Congress shall have Power to dispose of and make all
needful Rules and Regulations respecting the Territory or other
Property belonging to the United States; and nothing in this
Constitution shall be so construed as to Prejudice any Claims
of the United States, or of any particular State.
    Section 4. The United States shall guarantee to every State
in this Union a Republican Form of Government, and shall
protect each of them against Invasion; and on Application of
the Legislature, or of the Executive (when the Legislature
cannot be convened) against domestic Violence.

                               Article V.

    The Congress, whenever two thirds of both Houses shall deem
it necessary, shall propose Amendments to this Constitution,
or, on the Application of the Legislatures of two thirds of the
several States, shall call a Convention for proposing
Amendments, which, in either Case, shall be valid to all
Intents and Purposes, as Part of this Constitution, when
ratified by the Legislatures of three fourths of the several
States, or by Conventions in three fourths thereof, as the one
or the other Mode of Ratification may be proposed by the
Congress; Provided that no Amendment which may be made prior to
the Year One thousand eight hundred and eight shall in any
Manner affect the first and fourth Clauses in the Ninth Section
of the first Article; and that no State, without its Consent,
shall be deprived of its equal Suffrage in the Senate.

                              Article VI.

    \1\All Debts contracted and Engagements entered into,
before the Adoption of this Constitution, shall be as valid
against the United States under this Constitution, as under the
Confederation.
    \2\This Constitution, and the Laws of the United States
which shall be made in Pursuance thereof; and all Treaties
made, or which shall be made, under the Authority of the United
States, shall be the supreme Law of the Land; and the Judges in
every State shall be bound thereby, any Thing in the
Constitution or Laws of any State to the Contrary
notwithstanding.
    \3\The Senators and Representatives before mentioned, and
the Members of the several State Legislatures, and all
executive and judicial Officers, both of the United States and
of the several States, shall be bound by Oath or Affirmation,
to support this Constitution; but no religious Test shall ever
be required as a Qualification to any Office or public Trust
under the United States.

                              Article VII.

    The Ratification of the Conventions of nine States, shall
be sufficient for the Establishment of this Constitution
between the States so ratifying the Same.

done in Convention by the Unanimous Consent of the States present the
        Seventeenth Day of September in the Year of our Lord one
        thousand seven hundred and Eighty seven and of the Independence
        of the United States of America the Twelfth

In witness whereof We have hereunto subscribed our Names,

                                           G\O\. WASHINGTON--Presid\t\.
                                               and deputy from Virginia

            [Signed also by the deputies of twelve States.]

Delaware
                                         New Hampshire

  Geo: Read
                                           John Langdon
  Gunning Bedford jun
                                           Nicholas Gilman
  John Dickinson
  Richard Bassett
                                         Massachusetts
  Jaco: Broom
                                           Nathaniel Gorham
Maryland
                                           Rufus King

  James M\c\Henry
                                         Connecticut
  Dan of S\t\ Tho\s\ Jenifer
  Dan\l\ Carroll
                                           W\m\. Sam\l\. Johnson
                                           Roger Sherman
Virginia
                                         New York
  John Blair
  James Madison Jr.
                                           Alexander Hamilton

North Carolina
                                         New Jersey

  W\m\ Blount
                                           Wil: Livingston
  Rich\d\. Dobbs Spaight
                                           David Brearley
  Hu Williamson
                                           W\m\. Paterson
                                           Jona: Dayton
South Carolina
                                         Pennsylvania
  J. Rutledge
  Charles Cotesworth Pinckney
                                           B Franklin
  Charles Pinckney
                                           Thomas Mifflin
  Pierce Butler
                                           Rob\t\ Morris
                                           Geo. Clymer
Georgia
                                           Tho\s\. FitzSimons
                                           Jared Ingersoll
  William Few
                                           James Wilson
  Abr Baldwin
                                           Gouv Morris

Attest:  William Jackson Secretary
ARTICLES IN ADDITION TO, AND AMENDMENT OF, THE CONSTITUTION OF THE
    UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, PROPOSED BY CONGRESS, AND RATIFIED BY THE
    LEGISLATURES OF THE SEVERAL STATES, PURSUANT TO THE FIFTH ARTICLE
    OF THE ORIGINAL CONSTITUTION\12\

                            Article [I.]\13\

    Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of
religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or
abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; of the right
of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the
Government for a redress of grievances.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   * * * * *
\12\The first ten amendments of the Constitution of the United States
(and two others, one of which failed of ratification and the other
which later became the 27th amendment) were proposed to the
legislatures of the several States by the First Congress on September
25, 1789. The first ten amendments were ratified by the following
States, and the notifications of ratification by the Governors thereof
were successively communicated by the President to Congress: New
Jersey, November 20, 1789; Maryland, December 19, 1789; North Carolina,
December 22, 1789; South Carolina, January 19, 1790; New Hampshire,
January 25, 1790; Delaware, January 28, 1790; New York, February 24,
1790; Pennsylvania, March 10, 1790; Rhode Island, June 7, 1790;
Vermont, November 3, 1791; and Virginia, December 15, 1791.
                                   * * * * *
Ratification was completed on December 15, 1791.
                                   * * * * *
The amendments were subsequently ratified by the legislatures of
Massachusetts, March 2, 1939; Georgia, March 18, 1939; and Connecticut,
April 19, 1939.
                                   * * * * *
\13\Only the 13th, 14th, 15th, and 16th articles of amendment had
numbers assigned to them at the time of ratification.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

                             Article [II.]

    A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security
of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms,
shall not be infringed.

                             Article [III.]

    No Soldier shall, in time of peace be quartered in any
house, without the consent of the Owner, nor in time of war,
but in a manner to be prescribed by law.

                             Article [IV.]

    The right of the people to be secure in their persons,
houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and
seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall issue,
but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and
particularly describing the place to be searched, and the
persons or things to be seized.

                              Article [V.]

    No person shall be held to answer for a capital, or
otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictment
of a Grand Jury, except in cases arising in the land or naval
forces, or in the Militia, when in actual service in time of
War or public danger; nor shall any person be subject for the
same offence to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb; nor
shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against
himself, nor be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without
due process of law; nor shall private property be taken for
public use, without just compensation.

                             Article [VI.]

    In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the
right to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury of the
State and district wherein the crime shall have been committed,
which district shall have been previously ascertained by law,
and to be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation;
to be confronted with the witnesses against him; to have
compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor, and to
have the Assistance of Counsel for his defense.

                             Article [VII.]

    In Suits at common law, where the value in controversy
shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall
be preserved, and no fact tried by a jury, shall be otherwise
re-examined in any Court of the United States, than according
to the rules of the common law.

                            Article [VIII.]

    Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines
imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted.

                             Article [IX.]

    The enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights,
shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by
the people.

                              Article [X.]

    The powers not delegated to the United States by the
Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved
to the States respectively, or to the people.

                             Article [XI.]

    The Judicial power of the United States shall not be
construed to extend to any suit in law or equity, commenced or
prosecuted against one of the United States by Citizens of
another State, or by Citizens or Subjects of any Foreign State.